# Policy-Mix-Paper-Code-
This code is being developed by Ioannis Milioritsas. The associated paper is : "Single support policies, not complex policy mixes, have been the driver of renewable power deployment in Europe", by Milioritsas, Nipper, Chaianong, and Lilliestam.

https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.21098736


This repository contains the software accompanying a manuscript currently under review at Communications Earth & Environment.


## Overview

This repository contains the data and code required to reproduce the main results and figures of the manuscript. The analysis identifies effective renewable energy policy interventions in Europe by combining structural break detection methods with a detailed policy dataset for solar and wind power over the period 1991–2023.

The repository is structured to allow full replication of:

* Data cleaning
* Regression results, including structural break detection, and policy effect attribution
* Main figures in the manuscript
* Robustness checks

---

Instructions how to replicate the main results:

1. Copy all files and folders to a location of your choice.
2. Open **00.master_script_solar.R** or **00.master_script_wind.R** in R, depending on the model you want to replicate.
3. Update the relevant lines of the code in scripts 00-04 to indicate where you copied the data in STEP 1.
5. Execute the scripts.

---

## Repository Structure
 * **0.Data**:
 This file contains all the necessary data to replicate the analysis - in xlsx or csv format - including the dependent variables for both the solar and wind models, the control variables and the policy data. 
 The policy_analysis Excel files are needed to generate figures 3a and 3b from the manuscript. The data included in these are output data generated by running the R scripts. 
 * **1.Replication codes**:
 This file contains all the neccessary R scripts to replicate the analysis, with separate subfiles for the solar and wind models. 
 The policy database is not currently included here to protect the double-blinded review proccess of the paper, but it is available upon request. The relevant policy data used for the analysis are included in the policy_analysis Excel spreadsheets for the respective technologies. 

---

## Datasets description
 * **solar_installed_capacity_Eurostat**:                             
 Solar cumulative installed capacity data; used to create the dependent variable of the solar model. Source: Eurostat
 * **wind_installed_capacity_Eurostat.xlsx**:                           
 Wind cumulative installed capacity data; used to create the dependent variable of the wind model. Source: Eurostat
 * **IRENA_Stats_extract_2025 H2.xlsx**:                                   
 Complementary installed capacity data used as a depndent variable in both wind and solar models for the UK for 2020-2023. Source: IRENA 
 * **long_term_interest_rates.csv**:                                  
 Nominal long-term interest rates, weighted mean by GDP, weights in current euro;  used as a control variable for both the solar and wind models. Source: AMECO (European Comission)
 * **National_Large Non-Residential_Installed Prices (2000-2023).csv**:    
 National Large Non-Residential Solar Installed Prices; used to create the proxy for global solar installation costs in the solar model. Source: NREL
 * **National_Residential_Installed Prices (2000-2023).csv**:   
 National Residential Solar Installed Prices; used to create the proxy for global solar installation costs in the solar model. Source: NREL
 * **National_Small Non-Residential_Installed Prices (2000-2023).csv**:    
 National Small Non-Residential Solar Installed Prices; used to create the proxy for global solar installation costs in the solar model. Source: NREL
 * **solar_installation_costs_global.xlsx**:                               
 Global solar installation costs; used to create the proxy for global solar installation costs in the solar model. Source: IRENA
 * **wind_installation_costs_global_2023.csv**:                            
 Global wind installation costs; used as a control variable for the wind model. Source: IRENA
 * **GDPpc_const_WB**:                                 
 Income per capita data used as a control variable in the solar model. Source: World Bank
 * **share-electricity-fossil-fuels.csv**:   
 Share of electricity coming from fossil fuels; used as a control variable for the robustness checks. Source: OWID taken from Ember (2025), Energy Institute
 * **wholesale_electricity_prices.csv**:                              
 Wholesale electricityprice data; used as a control variable for the robustness checks. Source: Eurostat
 * **electricity-demand.csv**:                                            
  Electiricty demand data; used as a control variable for the robustness checks. Source: OurWorldInData (OWID) taken from Ember & Energy Institute
 * **policy_analysis_solar.xlsx**:                                 
 Policy analysis data generated from the solar model, used to generate Figure 3a. The file also includes detailed policy data relevanmt for the policy attribution. Source: Climate Policy Atlas (the relevant data are in effect_quant_by_period sheet). This file also contains the data for generating Figures 1a and 1b in the Manuscript. 
 * **policy_analysis_solar.xlsx**:                                        
 Policy analysis output data generated from the wind model, used to generate Figure 3b. The file also includes detailed policy data relevanmt for the policy attribution. Source: Climate Policy Atlas (the relevant data are in effect_quant_by_period sheet). This file also contains the data for generating Figures 1a and 1b in the Manuscript. 
 
---

## Code description 

solar model:
 * **00.master_script_solar.R**:
 Cleans memory, loads packages, sets the working direcotry, and runs the solar model analysis
 * **01.data_cleaning_solar.R**:
 Merges raw datasets, constructs variables used in the solar model analysis
 * **02.analysis_solar.R**:
 Implements the strucural break solar models, displays the results, performs serial correlation robustness checks, and create the policy contibutions
 * **03.figures_solar (Fig.3a).R**:
 Reproduces manuscript figure 3a using the solar model output 
 * **04.robustness_checks_solar_excluding_prices.R**:
 Robustness checks for the solar model 
 * **04.robustness_checks_solar_with_prices.R**:
 Additional robustness checks for the solar model, including wholesale electricity prices as control variable 
 
 wind model:
 * **00.master_script_wind.R**:
 Cleans memory, loads packages, sets the working direcotry, and runs the wind model analysis
 * **01.data_cleaning_wind.R**:
 Merges raw datasets, constructs variables used in the wind model analysis
 * **02.analysis_wind.R**:
 Implements the strucural break solar models, displays the results,  performs serial correlation robustness checks, and create the policy contibutions
 * **03.figures_wind (Fig.3b).R**:
 Reproduces manuscript figure 3b using the wind model output
 * **04.robustness_checks_wind_excluding_prices.R**:
 Robustness checks for the wind model
 * **04.robustness_checks_wind_with_prices.R**:
 Additional robustness checks for the wind model, including wholesale electricity prices as control variable

---


## Dependencies

This project was implemented in R.

* **R version**: 4.3.1

---


## Required R packages:
* data.table
* dplyr
* tidyr
* stringr
* gets
* getspanel
* readr
* readxl
* plm
* countrycode
* tidyverse
* lubridate
* ggplot2
* patchwork 
* writexl
* extrafont

## Reproducibility Notes

* All results reported in the manuscript can be reproduced using the provided data and code.
* Figures are generated  from the analysis scripts; manual processing is required for generating the datasets used in Figures 3a and 3b, to merge the policy data with their corresponding effects, generated by the model.
* Intermediate datasets are not included, as they are generated within the workflow.

---


## Data Availability

All data necessary to reproduce the results are provided in this repository.

---

For questions regarding the code or data, please contact the corresponding author.

---

## Citation

If you use this code, please cite the associated publication.

---

## License

This software is distributed under the MIT License.

---

## Status

This repository corresponds to the version submitted for peer review.

---
